Hi, everyone.
Welcome to our session.
My name is Sayli,
and Brad Ford and I are going to be
your tour guides for the next one hour
as we go on a whirlwind tour through
the land of modern QuickTime audio.
That's me, Sayli.
So, a quick preview of what we'll
be covering in this session.
We'll start with a general overview of
QuickTime Audio and its capabilities
and contrast this a little bit
with what Core Audio has to offer.
Because often when you're writing
your audio-based applications,
one of the first questions you
face during development time is,
"What set of APIs should I use?"
Hopefully this session gives
you a little more information
to make a better decision.
Next, as you know, QuickTime is a rather
mature piece of software,
and over the years, we've had the need to
deprecate certain APIs.
With some other APIs,
although we've not deprecated them,
we highly discourage the use of
them just because there's newer,
smarter,
better ways of doing the same thing.
So in this section,
we'll talk about what's
deprecated and ill-advised,
and then we'll steer you towards
what we'd rather have you use.
And finally, we'll cover some new
features in QuickTime Audio.
These were either introduced
in QuickTime 7.1 or Leopard.
So starting with our overview,
QuickTime is a layer based
on top of Core Audio.
So it uses Core Audio's audio units,
the audio converter, the output unit,
et cetera, in its signal processing.
But what QuickTime adds on top is a sort
of value that you can see in terms of
built-in capabilities that are really
useful for multimedia applications.
QuickTime provides a really rich
file and data format and some other
built-in capabilities that I'll get into
more detail in the next four slides.
So starting with import,
QuickTime transparently opens a
really wide range of containers.
These include not only QuickTime's
own .mov multimedia container,
but that second sub-bullet down there is
all the formats supported by Core Audio.
So QuickTime uses Core Audio's
audio file format APIs,
and also some other formats such as DV,
AVI, that Core Audio does not support,
and then a whole host of third-party
formats such as DivX and Windows Media.
This is because QuickTime's import
architecture is completely expandable
using third-party components.
On the data format side,
QuickTime decodes, again,
a whole host of containers and
also supports third-party decoders.
So if you use QuickTime's
QuickTime Audio APIs,
you get all this rich file and
data format support for free,
just out of the box.
So if that's something
useful for your application,
then QuickTime Audio APIs are
definitely the way to go.
On the playback side,
QuickTime gives you all that.
Multimedia synchronization that
helps you sync audio with video.
Media time scaling.
This is where during editing,
when you edit media in QuickTime,
you can assign rate and
duration to your media.
What this means is during playback,
rate scalers can be
applied to your media.
And if you have two tracks that have
media that contain different durations,
you can fit those together.
Then also we have some built-in
capabilities for pitch and rate control.
And using the rate changes
preserve pitch property,
you can get the non-Chipmunk-style
audio during rate changes.
There's volume and spectral metering.
And QuickTime does movie-level mixing.
So if you have multiple tracks,
multiple audio tracks in your movie,
QuickTime will handle the
mixing of all these together.
And QuickTime also does
channel layout-based mixing.
So if you have, say,
5.1 content and you're
playing it to a device that's,
say, stereo,
QuickTime can do that mixing for you.
In QuickTime 7,
we introduced a new set of APIs called
the Movie Audio Extraction APIs.
And this is a way for you to suck
raw PCM data out of the movie.
You can consider this as your one-stop
shop for getting decompressed,
mixed movie audio samples.
And these APIs are thread-safe,
which means you can perform
extraction on a worker thread.
And provided the audio codecs,
the underlying audio codecs that
you're using are thread-safe.
And this set of APIs gives
you a sort of a convenience.
It takes you a layer higher than, say,
the audio converter.
QuickTime deals with all the intricacies
and the details that are related with
mixing and converting of audio and
abstracts your application away from this
so that you don't have to go down to,
say, the level of the audio converter
and do any of the mixing yourself
or the decoding yourself.
So that's a huge gain.
Just as with Decode,
QuickTime can encode a
whole host of data formats.
And with AAC and AMR,
license is required if you're
doing the encode on Windows.
And then we have a very useful,
the standard audio compression component
and its APIs that Brad will get into
much greater detail in a later section.
But these are a way to very
easily configure compression
settings during export.
And again, QuickTime writes to a
whole host of containers,
and QuickTime's playback and export
and extraction paths are all the same,
so this means what you
hear is what you get.
And finally,
QuickTime APIs are multi-platform,
so you can use them on Windows.
So that's all the good
stuff about QuickTime Audio,
but it might be the case that the
application that you're writing is
very audio-centric or audio-only.
Maybe you're not really caring about,
say, video synchronization.
You don't really care much about
file and data format support.
Maybe you're writing a very specific
signal processing application.
In that case,
Core Audio is a better choice for
you because basically it provides a
lot greater control on the underlying
processing units than QuickTime Audio.
And in general, it has a lot more
audio-specific capabilities than
QuickTime Audio can provide.
So a way of thinking of this could be if
you need multimedia presentation support,
file and data format support,
QuickTime Audio is more the
kind of APIs you'd want to use.
If it's more signal processing specific,
not really related to video,
Core Audio APIs might be a better choice.
That sort of concludes this first
section of the QuickTime Audio overview.
And I'm now going to hand it to Brad,
where he'll talk about deprecated APIs.
But don't worry, I'll be back.
Thanks, Sayli.
And thank you all for sticking it
out with us this late in the day.
It is the last session of the day,
and I'll try not to get too punchy.
API best practices is
a nice way of saying,
"Stay away from these
APIs that will hurt you."
So first let me ask a
philosophical question,
and maybe I could ask you all
to write a little mini essay
on this of 500 words or less.
What is QuickTime to you?
I guess the answer might be different
depending on how much pain you've
gone through through the years,
what level of APIs you've used.
It's either suited all your needs,
some of your needs, or been woefully
inadequate in some areas.
One thing we can say
about QuickTime is that
It is 15 years old,
and that might give a perception
of QuickTime as a whole,
as a framework,
as something looking like this.
This should be rehashed to you if you
were here for session 212 this morning.
That's okay.
Seeing it a second time is good for you.
Underneath it says, big, bloated, crufty,
and difficult to use.
That's the perception that one
can receive when you say that a
piece of software is 15 years old,
because as we know, in software years,
15 years is like 90.
But this is, in fact, a myth,
and I'm going to debunk that myth,
and I'm going to tell
you why it's not true.
The truth is, QuickTime is modern,
very modern.
Our audio engine,
which this talk is about audio,
so I'll just focus on the
audio section of QuickTime.
The engine was entirely
rewritten in version 212.
It was rewritten in version 7.0,
and that was two years or
less than two years ago.
And it sits atop Core Audio,
which is a very recent architecture
and provides low latency and
sample accurate audio rendering.
So the audio engine in QuickTime is
very modern and very good.
It's built atop Core Audio.
The only thing that's really old
about QuickTime are the interfaces
you use to perform the tasks
that you're used to performing.
And there's a good reason for that.
People that have used our
functions for years and years,
we consider that a contract
with those developers.
And we go through long API approval
processes internally before
we unleash something on you.
We want to make sure
that we get it right,
because we intend to live with APIs that
we publish for a very long time.
And so we think long and hard
before we deprecate something,
because we don't want to
leave people stranded.
But we do take API deprecation seriously.
When it's appropriate,
we feel it is necessary and good
and right to deprecate needed
APIs so that our outer shell matches
the cleanliness and beautifulness
of our internal workings.
We are modernizing our
API as well as our internals.
This is an ongoing process.
We talked to you this morning
about movie audio extraction,
audio context inserts,
and some of these other newer interfaces
that are absolutely bright and shiny
and new great ways to do things.
So what we want to do in this
section is just tell you which of
the five million APIs to not use
and which of those are good to use.
So, Sound Manager is deprecated
officially in Leopard.
They've been saying it on the
Core Audio list for about two years now,
but I think they really
mean business this time.
What does this mean
for you and your code?
In the area of Codex,
And I'm only going to
speak to codec writers.
If you write sound codecs,
if you've written SCOMs in the past,
sound compressor decomponents,
know that these are deprecated
and you should be writing audio
encoder components instead.
This should not come
as a surprise to you.
The same goes for SDECs.
They are deprecated in Leopard,
and you should be writing
audio decoders instead.
Don't be alarmed by this if you're
worried about compatibility with
applications that use Sound Manager.
There is a compatibility
layer built atop ADECs and
AINC components called the SMAC.
So if you write an AINC or an ADEC,
you'll still be compatible with
apps that use Sound Manager.
It's just that it will... only expose
interface that's acceptable for
Sound Manager to or one channel of audio
and sample rates less than 64 kilohertz.
Direct user access to codec
components is discouraged.
So I was speaking to codec writers
in the first part because we believe
at this point you should not,
in any of your code,
need to open a component on a
codec component for any reason.
We think that any operation
that you would perform
querying a component directly,
you can now use the Audio Converter
API to do the same thing.
Whether it be to get the magic cookie,
the channel layout,
various information about the formats
that are acceptable for the codec,
we think you can use the
Audio Converter for that.
If you disagree with me,
please come and talk to us afterwards
and tell us why you think you still
need to dip down to the codec interface.
as a user.
Next up, conversion.
Sound converter is really the knife in
the chest for sound manager deprecation.
Many people just love hanging on to
that sound converter because it's
served us well for so many years.
It is deprecated too.
Your choices are: use Audio Converter,
which has a very similar interface.
It's in the Audio Toolbox framework.
Or, if you can release your app with
QuickTime 7.1 or later compatibility,
we highly recommend use of
the SC Audio Compression
APIs because they give you an
audio converter-style interface,
they give you high-resolution audio,
mixing, and they give you windows.
That being Windows,
like Microsoft Windows.
One thing we've seen people do in
the past is a sort of combination
of get media sample plus sound
converter fill buffer in order
to get PCM audio out of a file.
This is not the correct way to do it.
Let me tell you why.
If you're familiar with movies,
the QuickTime architecture,
a movie has tracks.
Tracks have media.
Media have samples, media samples.
If you need to drill down to the
media sample layer to get a sample
out of a QuickTime movie and then
decompress it yourself manually
using sound converter fill buffer,
you're not getting a mix of the
audio across multiple tracks.
And you're also preventing us
from doing interesting things with
the media samples in the media.
You might be making incorrect
assumptions about how we're
going to lay out the media.
And so it's much better if you can
use movie audio extraction instead.
The same goes for put
movie into typed handle.
Also,
it's been around for a long time and
people have been using this method
to sort of do a mini encode or a
mini decode of some number of samples
from a source movie and to put them
into an uncompressed buffer of audio.
This is discouraged as well
because it's a lot slower.
It incurs a penalty of set
up and tear down that movie
audio extraction does not.
So please, please, please use movie audio
extraction for getting PCM audio
out of a QuickTime movie.
Audio Mixing.
Hopefully most of you didn't
need to do audio mixing
directly with the Sound Manager.
Sound Mixer is deprecated.
We found that usually people
weren't using this interface
because there wasn't,
frankly,
there wasn't that much mixing to do
since it only supported stereo and mono.
And you could get at the Sound Mixer
by going through Sound Converter.
But if you were using it,
know that your alternative now is
to use a mixer audio unit instead.
They come in three flavors.
There's a stereo mixer, a 3D mixer,
and a matrix mixer.
Use whichever one is
appropriate for your needs.
In the area of movie export,
I'm not going to talk about
specific sound manager
portions that are deprecated,
but more along the lines of you
should understand what's happening
under the covers when you perform
a movie export using QuickTime's
APIs like export movie to data ref.
The old style of export is discouraged.
So you might ask,
how do I know if I'm doing an old
style export or a new style export?
You are using old style export if
you open up an export component that
is a spit-type component explicitly.
For instance,
if you're going to do some setup on it,
you're going to pass some atom
container of settings to it.
And then you take that previously
configured export component and
you pass it to an export API such
as movie export to data ref.
You are getting the old style path,
whether you knew it or not.
This is discouraged because
it's using sound converters and
other sound manager interfaces
underneath which are now deprecated.
That means that we're not going
to maintain that code path.
Well, we maintain it,
but we don't want to make fixes there.
We want to be working in the new world.
So you should opt in for the
new style of export instead.
What do you have to do?
Well,
if you don't do what I just described,
if you don't open up that spit
component explicitly and you just
pass null as the last parameter
to one of these movie export APIs,
you're covered.
You're automatically getting
the new style export.
If you need to continue to do this to
open up an export component explicitly,
then you need to make one additional
API call if you're not already doing so.
Call QT set component property on
that export component instance and
tell it that you want to opt in
for high resolution audio features.
It's kind of small.
I don't know if you can read it.
I think we have a competition
in QuickTime for the longest
constant in the world.
We're getting close.
KQT movie exporter property ID underscore
enable high resolution audio features.
Next up is Capture.
Sound input components
are deprecated in Leopard,
and you have several choices instead.
If you are at the Core Audio level,
you can use an AU-HAL audio unit.
It does the same thing.
You could also use the
Core Audio interfaces directly,
but they are a little bit
more difficult to use,
and so I think the Core Audio team
would agree with me.
You want to be at the
AU-HAL audio unit level instead.
If you want to do synchronization
with video as you're doing Capture
and you like the sequence grabber,
then know that the sound media
type SG channel is deprecated
because it uses a sound input
component underneath the covers.
Instead, you should be using the newer
SG audio media type SG channel,
which, not surprisingly,
uses an AU-HAL audio unit
underneath the covers.
But the preferred method to use,
and we really, really want to use it,
is the Sound Input Component.
The preferred method to use,
and we really,
really want to push this point,
is that QtKit Capture in Leopard
is the way to go for Capture,
if you can.
It's a higher level interface.
It's a very clean interface,
so it might not allow all of the
kind of fine-grained control that
you're used to with Sequence Grabber,
but this is an API set that's still
actively being defined and pursued,
and so now is the time
to provide feedback.
It's available on your Leopard.
It's available on your Leopard disks.
Look at the QtKit Capture
APIs and let us know.
Provide us feedback with what you think
is missing so that you can transition
off the Sequence Grabber as soon as
it makes sense for your application.
In the area of playback,
sound output device components or
SDEV components are deprecated.
Many of you found out about this in
QuickTime 7.0 when we just stopped
playing to them and started playing
to Core Audio HAL devices instead.
Sort of rude of us at the time,
but we're telling you now
officially that they're deprecated.
If you need to write
an audio device driver,
the correct way to do it on OS X is
to write a Core Audio HAL plug-in
in user space or a KEXT driver
at the kernel level.
However, we're finding that most people
weren't writing SDEVs because they
needed to write a device driver.
They were doing it as a sort of hackery,
trickery way to get uncompressed
PCM samples out the end of the day.
So, we're trying to get rid of
QuickTime's audio rendering chain.
Well, that of course is deprecated.
Don't try to use an SDEV for
real-time effects insertion.
Instead,
we have a new way of doing it in Leopard
called the Qt Audio Context Inserts,
which Sayli will be telling you about
in great detail in just a few minutes.
Sound description handles.
So thus ends our section
on Sound Manager proper,
I wanted to inform you about a
couple other interfaces in regard to
QuickTime Audio that you should steer
away from or know some caveats about.
And one of them is sound
description handles.
They come in three versions now.
That's a lot of versions
to say the same thing.
They can be very confusing to
directly access the various fields
in sound description handles.
We want to discourage
you from doing that.
Instead, we introduced in QuickTime 7.0 a
suite of accessor methods called
the Qt Sound Description functions.
And there are five of them.
Qt Sound Description, Get Property Info,
Get Property, Set Property.
That's how you find out about the format
as an Audio Stream Basic Description,
Channel Layout, Magic Cookie, et cetera.
You create a sound description.
Not by saying new handle and then
filling in the fields yourself,
but by using Qt Sound Description,
Create.
And if you want to convert between one
version of sound description and another,
please use Qt Sound Description Convert,
rather than trying to do
the conversion manually.
Media handler calls.
In the older QuickTime world,
a lot of functionality was gotten
to directly by going down to the
media handler and making calls
directly on the media handler.
So on the left side here,
we have the don'ts,
and on the right side, we have the do's.
Instead of going down to the media level,
we now have introduced track level,
or in some case, movie level,
properties to do the same thing.
And the reason you don't
want to go down to,
say, media set volume rather than
set track audio gain is that
the media set volume call has...
has worse parameters.
It takes a short instead of a float,
so you have less granularity and less
resolution in making your volume changes.
Instead of a range of 0 to 255,
when you use the new one,
you can go from 1.0 down
to 0.0 in floating point.
So take a look at all of those
functions and please transition
over to the track level.
And in two cases there,
the movie level property calls
rather than the media handler calls.
Load Movie into RAM is
sort of a special case,
but I wanted to bring it up because
it's been somewhat problematic in code
that people have talked to us about
on the QuickTime API list recently.
Load Movie into RAM was a
really great idea in OS 9.
Remember when you had those apps
that you could do Command-I on,
and then up would pop that window
where you could allot memory to an app,
and you could boost it all the way
up and give an app lots of memory?
Well, in modern OSes like we have
today with OS X and Windows,
with virtual memory systems,
it's ill-advised to call Load Movie into
RAM because you're just going to
be paging out that memory anyway,
so you're not gaining anything by it.
It is ill-advised when working with
audio media to use Load Movie into RAM,
and we also want to discourage
using the preload bit on audio
tracks to do the same thing.
So that concludes the section on
deprecation and best practices.
Let's transition over to the new
APIs in QuickTime 7.1 and Leopard,
first of which is
SC Audio Compression APIs.
We touched on these briefly
this morning in session 212.
Where are they?
They're in the QuickTime 7.1 SDK,
or I believe it's now called
the QuickTime 7.1.2 SDK.
It was released earlier this week.
If you go to the web and you
download Xcode 2.4 developer tools,
you will get the
QuickTime 7.1 SDK for the Mac,
and it's also available as
the Windows QuickTime 7.1 SDK.
The SC Audio Compression APIs are
available on Mac and Windows.
You can find the prototypes
in QuickTimeComponents.h,
and you can find sample code
in SC Audio Compress and WACtv.
WACtv has been out for a year.
SC Audio Compress was just
released earlier this week.
It's on your seed example CD,
and it should be live on the
developer.apple.com site as well now.
What are the SC Audio Compression APIs?
Well,
SC Audio Compression is a component.
You open it using the
Component Manager API,
like open a component.
It's of type SCDI and Audi.
It's been around for about two years now,
but we've just beefed it up with the
ability to do encodes and decodes.
It is a modern replacement
for Sound Converter.
So now we can finally answer
people's questions on the API list
when they tell us that they want
to use Sound Converter and we say,
"Don't use Sound Converter,
use Audio Converter," and they say,
"But I want my code to run on
Windows." You can finally say,
"Oh, okay,
use SC Audio Compression APIs instead."
Another great thing about it is that if
you've used Audio Converter before and
you're familiar with the interfaces,
you'll be right at home because
it uses an Audio Converter fill
complex buffer style interface.
The equivalent in the
SC Audio Compression APIs is
called SC Audio Fill Buffer.
Let me give you a demo.
This is a demo I showed this morning too.
Let's go over to the demo machine.
So I have here a build of Leopard.
And I'm going to open
up a QuickTime movie.
This is of a recital that
I gave two weeks ago,
Sunday.
I'm going to play a little bit of this.
So it's a solo guitar track.
The first thing I do after a concert
is get a call from my mom saying,
how did it go?
And after the call usually comes a
request for the audio of the concert.
And so I have to send her
audio of what I just played.
And it usually is too big to go over
the internet without compressing it.
So I go into my
QuickTime Pro Save Exported
File As dialog.
and I compress it to something.
This is the point where
usually people get really,
really confused because
it's just option overload.
You've got, I don't know, what is it,
10 now formats to choose from,
lots of channel layouts to choose from,
lots of sample rates,
and all of these various settings.
So it might not be intuitive to the
audio newbie which combination of
parameters is the correct one for export.
So one thing that we added with
the help of SC Audio Compression
APIs in Leopard is a preview
function in QuickTime Player.
So these two new,
these buttons are new down here.
They let you loop a 10-second segment
of the source movie and listen to it as
you apply these settings in real time,
and it will update the sound.
So you can just sort of listen
to the trade-offs between
quality and file size as you go,
and then pick the right one
for your particular situation.
So I'm going to go ahead and play
around with this a little bit.
♪ ♪ Can we turn it up a little bit?
[Transcript missing]
And I can compare that to the source at
any time by toggling back to play source.
Here are how much of the highs
I'm missing out on if I go
down to 16 kilobits per second.
So there it is,
SC Audio preview in QuickTime Player.
Let's go back to slides.
How did we do that?
There's the dialog on the top.
That is a client of the
SC Audio compression component.
The SC Audio compression component
has a list of properties.
So all of that UI was built
from that list of properties.
You could build your own UI if you
didn't want to use that stock UI,
if you don't like it for some reason.
And so you get callbacks when
any of those properties change.
If you have registered
listener callbacks,
you're told, say, when the current
compression type changes.
Underneath the covers,
you'll see there's an SC Audio fill
buffer call in the middle.
We know about the source movie,
so we use movie audio extraction to get
the raw PCM samples mixed from the movie.
We run them through SC Audio Fill Buffer,
applying the current output settings,
and then write a new destination
QuickTime movie using Add Media Sample 2,
and then use QuickTime's built-in
playback mechanism to just
task the movie and idle it.
How does it work?
I just told you about what's
happening outside of the SC Audio box,
but here's what's happening inside.
When you call SC Audio Fill Buffer,
you're providing buffers of
audio in the source format,
and you're getting them out
in the destination format.
Internally, we use an audio converter
for decode if necessary.
There are opt-outs for
all of these things.
Next, we place a matrix mixer audio unit
for mixing if a mix is desired.
So if we're going from
N channels to M channels,
we'll insert a matrix mixer.
It also internally uses another audio
converter for ENCODE if necessary.
So it's sort of similar to
Sound Converter in that it does
mixing unlike the Audio Converter.
Why would we want this?
Well, hopefully it's self-evident by now.
We needed something to replace
Sound Converter on Windows.
That was a big reason.
It enables cross-platform decode,
compress, and transcode.
It provides value over the
audio converter alone because
it can do this mixing.
It has a very nice,
totally property-driven interface,
and if that stock dialog
is enough for you,
go ahead and use it.
You call SC Request Image Settings.
Here's the sort of general overview
for how you would program it.
You open it up, the component instance.
You can configure the output format,
input format, or the list of compressors
and sample rates,
et cetera, that you want to see in the
lists by using this suite of
QT get component property,
set component property,
and look in QuickTimeComponents.h
and search for SC Audio.
You'll see a list of about 30
different constants that you
can use to set for properties.
After you've configured it with
the input and output formats,
and that's the minimum
config that you need,
you can start calling
SC Audio fill buffer repeatedly
and get those samples out of it.
It is a pull mechanism
just as Audio Converter is.
Here's what the APIs look like.
SC Audio Fill Buffer has exactly the
same parameters past the first one,
which is a component instance.
It's exactly the same
parameters as you would see in
Audio Converter Fill Complex Buffer.
Down at the bottom,
you'll see a type def of the
SC Audio Input Data Proc,
which again has exactly the same
parameters as the Audio Converter's
Input Data Proc for Fill Complex Buffer.
And there's an additional
call in the middle there,
SC Audio Reset.
If you've finished your
compression and you want to,
say,
jump to a different point in the file,
you would call SC Audio Reset to empty
out any latent samples in the chain.
The contract for SC Audio Fill Buffer's
input data proc is identical
to audio converters.
Let me just review that for a second.
So again, you call SC Audio Fill Buffer,
and then on the opposite side,
you've registered an input data
proc that will be called to provide
samples in the source format.
You fill buffer for some number of
packets in the destination format,
and when your input data proc is called,
it will be called for some
other number of packets.
It might be the same or it
might be different than what
you pulled for in fill buffer.
And in that input proc,
you may provide exactly that number
of packets that it requested,
or you can provide fewer or more or none.
You signal temporary underrun by
returning an error from the input proc.
And if you want to signal
that you are out of data,
you will never get any more data,
you set all of the buffer pointers in the
audio buffer list to null and set number
of packets to zero in the input proc.
And it might call you about six
or seven extra times saying,
"Are you really out?
Are you really out?
Is this really the end?" And each
time you do the same thing
and then it stops calling you.
Let's give you a demo of how to program
with the SC Audio Compression APIs.
Associated with this session,
you'll find on your Leopard
example CDs a sample application
called SC Audio Compress.
This isn't quite as sexy as the player
preview that I showed you earlier.
It's just a command line utility.
Sorry.
But it's nonetheless very useful
because it boils a compression using
QuickTime from start to finish down
to less than 1,500 lines of code.
So we have--I've pre-built it here
just to show you what it looks like,
the parameters to it.
When you invoke SC Audio Compress,
you need to provide it a -i and an input
file and then -o and an output file.
And then it pops up the
dialog that you saw before.
You select an output format.
It performs the compression
and writes it to a new file.
It can accept any audio file or movie,
and it can write to a CAF file
or a movie or raw PCM.
So let's go ahead and
give a demo of that.
I've got that same content from before.
So I'll say -i
Natalia Excerpt - O and I'll write
it out to some temporary location.
Okay, now notice there is no preview
button and play source button.
You might ask why.
Go ahead and ask.
Well, because this sample is
shipping now and works with the
QuickTime that's already shipping,
the...
QuickTime that I showed you earlier
is the one that's shipping in Leopard.
This one is compatible
with QuickTime 7.1.
That's why you don't
see those two buttons.
So I'll go ahead and
pick some output format.
Many of you might be interested
to know that we now are
going to put FLAC in Leopard.
That's been a highly
sought-after lossless format.
So I'll compress to FLAC, say OK.
It compresses it, and then I'll go ahead
and open the result.
and amazingly,
it's a movie with flack in it.
Okay,
so let's look at the code very briefly.
I don't want to spend too much time,
but I do want to just
show you how to read it.
It's very non-intuitively
read from bottom to top.
So when you're starting
looking at this file,
it's all just one file.
Start at the very bottom where
main is and work your way up.
And you'll see the
list of tasks in order.
It opens the source file,
it configures std audio,
then it opens the destination file,
then it calls SC audio
fill buffer repeatedly.
So it's not only a good sample for
learning about SC audio fill buffer,
it's also good for learning how to
read audio files using the audio file
API and how to write using the audio file
API and how to read using QuickTime and
how to write using QuickTime.
Okay, let's go back to slides.
Okay, I think I just covered all of that.
It uses specifically
Audio--Add Media Sample To to
do the writing to movie.
It uses audio file write packets
to do the writing to a CAF file.
Here's what it looks like graphically.
SC Audio fill buffer is in the middle.
That's performing the decode, mix,
or encode.
SC Audio Input Dataproc is providing
the buffers in the source format,
and those are acquired either
using the audio file API,
if it happens to be a
.aif or a .wav or a .caf.
Uh, or it uses--it defaults back to the
QuickTime APIs to open the movie and then
uses Movie Audio Extraction Fill Buffer
to acquire samples using that path.
And then on the output side,
it uses audio file write
packets to write a CAF file,
or if you specified .mov
as the output format,
it will use Add Media Sample
To to write the output format.
With that, I'm going to turn it back to
Sayli to talk more about the
new APIs in 7.1 and Leopard.
So moving along with our
discussion of new APIs,
we have pitch control.
About two years ago,
we showcased this pitch control
through our QuickTime player.
And if you ever opened
up the AV Controls panel,
you know you can control the pitch.
But we hadn't really given
a public interface for this.
So we've finally done
that as per your request.
So in new in QuickTime 7.1,
you can control the pitch of the movie.
How do you do it?
It's just one simple property.
It's get set and listenable on the movie.
And what it will do is control the pitch
of the audio of all the tracks that are
mixing into that movie audio context.
This means that currently it will not
support pitch for tracks such as MPEGs,
streaming, or music,
because they don't mix into
the movie audio context.
One thing to note is that the movie
that you're working with needs
to have been opened with this.
Rate changes preserves pitch property,
and that's because setting that
property creates a time pitch unit.
QuickTime creates a time pitch
unit for the movie underneath,
and you need that to exist
to make the pitch changes.
And the unit for this pitch
shift is in terms of sense.
So setting a value of 100 means that
you're raising the pitch by a semitone,
and so useful values would be
between plus or minus 1,200 because
that's an octave up or down.
Next, we have a set of properties that
help you to control the render
quality of the audio units that
QuickTime is using in its render path.
And this is useful because often
you have to make a trade-off between
render quality and CPU performance.
And by controlling this,
if you're on a low-end machine,
you can choose to use a
slightly lower render quality
if you're on a high-end machine.
And you can afford the CPU usage.
You can set a higher quality.
In particular,
that time pitch unit that I just
mentioned uses extremely different
algorithms when functioning in
the low and the high qualities.
In the case of the low quality,
it's using a time domain algorithm,
and in the higher quality,
it's using a frequency domain.
And by default,
we haven't set... This unit to function
in the high quality frequency domain.
So the only way you can access this is
by setting the render quality to high.
This is again new in QuickTime 7.1.
And you can use-- you can set this
property either during movie playback
or extraction or during export.
And note that when you set it for export,
you're setting the render quality
for all the units in the chain.
So this is your one-step solution
for controlling the quality.
And the constants are all the constants
that are defined in Core Audio,
and one additional constant,
which is the playback default constant.
And you set this to kind of reset your
units to a default optimal value that
QuickTime chooses for all the units.
The media optimization properties.
This is a way in which your applications
can allow QuickTime's importers to
perform import in an optimized fashion.
And when QuickTime optimizes media,
it might so happen that it'll create
movie structures or layout media in
a fashion that's different from what
it used to in previous versions.
But this shouldn't affect you
because by setting this property,
you're sort of implicitly agreeing
with QuickTime and saying that
I'm going to treat your movie
structures as an abstraction.
I'm not going to delve into the internals
or make any sorts of assumptions.
I'm going to access this movie structure
through QuickTime's high-level APIs.
And what does this get you?
Well, for one, you can get the VBR-style
import behavior.
Just to give you a little
bit of... background.
Right now, QuickTime's MP3 importer,
by default, when it encounters VBR media,
does not create accurate
VBR-style sample tables.
And this is because of
compatibility reasons.
When we tried to do this,
we broke certain older applications that
were making implicit assumptions about
how the movie structures are laid out.
If you remember Brad talking about
the get media sample... Yeah.
...and the sound converter
combination that we highly discourage,
these applications were doing that.
They were basically delving
deep into the movies,
tracks, media,
getting at the samples and doing
their own decoding and whatsoever.
Because such applications exist,
we can't change the default behavior,
but if you're a new modern
application and you want to
opt into this VBR style import,
which is the more accurate import
and helps you to eliminate dropouts
and helps you to synchronize better,
then you set this property to let
QuickTime know that you'd like it so.
And in the future,
we can add other kinds of optimization.
For example, we could import movies at
the time scale of the audio,
and this helps sample accuracy,
and you get this for free
if you've already opted in.
This is new in Leopard,
and the two properties that
are new are one works with
the new movie from properties,
and the new movie from properties is
the preferred way of opening a movie,
but you can also,
if you for some reason have to deal
directly with the importer component,
you can use the other property
and call it right after
you've opened the component,
but before you do any sort of import.
So those three were just
some quick new properties.
I'd like to now move on to
the Audio Context Insert APIs.
QuickTime has for many years
had a story for video effects.
We've had a video effects architecture,
but we haven't had any corresponding
story on the audio side.
There's not really been any way
to get at the synchronized audio.
QuickTime's audio context has
been pretty much of a black box
that you couldn't really access.
Sometimes we got questions as to
how do we perform custom processing,
and the easiest solution, well,
the only solution we could
give you was get at the audio
using movie audio extraction,
do your custom processing,
but after that,
you're kind of on your own.
You have to deal with the synchronization
beyond that custom processing point.
So essentially,
we were asking you to write your
own mini QuickTime playback engine,
and that was kind of a difficult
solution and not something we
should have expected you to do.
So these insert APIs are trying
to make that job easier for you,
and what they are is a way for you
to slot in a custom processing unit
into QuickTime's rendering chain.
And once you're slotted in there,
you could either perform,
add custom effects like do
mixing or perform any kind of,
add a filter or whatever,
or you could not manipulate the data,
but just watch the synchronized data
fly by and do data visualization.
You can insert an effect during
real-time rendering to an output device,
and you can also do this
during movie audio extraction.
And this insert API is completely
compatible with audio units.
It's driven by callbacks,
so it can work really easily
if the kind of processing you
do is done using audio units,
but it doesn't limit you
to using audio units.
So you can do your own custom processing,
or if you're on Windows,
do use direct show filters, et cetera.
So audio context inserts,
but what exactly is the audio context?
So let's review that a little
bit and also look at how data
flows in QuickTime's path.
AudioPath.
So every device on the system has
this concept of a device context.
It's not something you
actually can get at,
but it exists.
And generally, when you open a movie,
the movie just plays to the
default device and all is well.
But you might want to play the
movie to a different device.
And the way you do that is create
a context from this device context.
And associate a movie with it.
So a movie audio context is kind
of considered as a connection
between a movie and a device.
And if you're not doing real-time
playback but doing extraction instead,
what you'd be playing to is this
abstract notion of an extraction context.
Again, you can't really get at this,
but this is what exists under the hood.
If the movie has multiple tracks,
then audio from those tracks gets
mixed into a movie mix before
it's sent to device or before it's
sent to the extraction context.
Now, this mix we refer to
as a movie summary mix.
And the sample rate, it is PCM audio.
Its sample rate is equal to
the rate of the highest sample
rate amongst the tracks.
And its channel layout is a layout
that gets created by mixing like
channels of the tracks together.
So if that didn't make sense,
this picture might help you.
Here you see three tracks,
and you can see that the lefts and
the rights are mixing together.
And the movie summary mix is that
column you see in the middle.
So where do the inserts fit in?
They fit in right there.
The input to the insert
is the movie summary mix.
And generally,
when you're writing your insert,
you want to try and process the
data with the channel layout
equal to the movie summary mix.
But sometimes, depending on what
processing you're doing,
it might be the case that you are
constrained by what you can deal
with in terms of in and out layouts.
In that case,
when you register the insert,
you let QuickTime know what you
expect as the input channel layout.
And QuickTime will do a mix for you.
So the summary mix gets mixed into
the mix that you're expecting.
And then the data gets handed to you.
You do your processing and then
hand the data back to QuickTime,
which then gets sent to either the
device or the extraction context.
So it's important to note here that
if you're working with a movie that
has created a summary mix of 5.1,
but your insert or its internal
processing can only do a stereo to stereo
Effect, then you're constraining what's
being sent to the device.
So stereo content will
be sent to the device.
I'd like to now do a
demo of an application.
It's a client application of the inserts,
and...
It uses all these insert APIs and
implements the callbacks needed.
That's just a movie of Brad playing
his guitar while four Brads
playing their guitars because
you can never have too many Brads.
I'm going to open up the inserts panel.
What you see here in the top box is the
movie summary mix that I just mentioned.
And I'd like to mention
here that we have,
in QuickTime 7.1,
made two more properties public that help
you get at the movie and the devices mix.
So you can get at the movie summary mix,
and that's the property I've used
to get the movie summary mix.
And here you see, well, it's a stereo...
Studio Content, 32-bit floor and with a
sample rate of 48 kilohertz.
At the bottom is what the
device is configured to.
And this particular application is using
audio units for its internal processing.
And out here is a cool
unit called the filter.
If you like how this looks,
you can get at it and it's code
in the Core Audio developer SDK.
So I will now configure my insert.
I'm going to select a layout,
and I'm going to try and select
a layout that is consistent
with the movie summary mix,
so in this case, stereo.
And my insert is pretty much
good to go at this point,
so if I play,
it's going to be included in the
QuickTime signal processing path.
So here I'm varying some parameters
of this filter and as you can
see the effects are being applied
real time while playing back.
Let's do another unit, say the pitch.
[Transcript missing]
What's going on here is the
insert that's configured here
is going to be inserted in the
extraction that we set up over here.
And so up here you see that it's set to
extract to a default layer of stereo,
and it's going to...
Extract the entire file.
And if I were to hit export,
I'd get an option to save
it to a certain file,
but for just to save some time,
I'm going to just preview this.
But know that this preview isn't
doing playback through QuickTime.
It's actually previewing the
extracted samples after the insert
has been applied to the extraction.
So if I play that...
The pitch parameter has been
applied and you can see the effect.
Just an idea of the kinds of things
you can do with these inserts APIs.
And like I said, this is a really simple
application that uses audio units,
but you can roll in all
your custom processing.
Could we switch back to slides?
If you were to do this,
what were the steps involved
in setting all this up?
The first thing you'd want to do
is query the movie's summary mix.
This, as I said,
is for you to find out whether
you can deal with the mix
that the movie is creating.
So after you've queried the summary mix,
you try and see whether you can
process that mix as an input mix.
If you create a context for
the default audio device using,
or whatever device you need
to play it back to using the
create context for audio device,
and you pass in a device UID,
and what you get back is a context.
Once you have this context, you, well,
first you register your
insert with that context.
And the function you use to do that
is the register insert function,
and you provide some
registration information that
I'll get into some more detail,
but here's your chance to provide
your in and out layouts that you
support and addresses to callbacks
that you will be implementing.
So this context with the insert
register in it is then set on a movie.
If you already have a movie open,
then you just do a set
movie audio context.
If you're creating a new movie,
you can send it to the
new movie from properties,
pass in this audio
context to that function.
So those are the only five
steps that are really needed,
and you're good to go after that point,
and QuickTime's going to
make calls to your callbacks,
and you're in the chain at that point.
So what are the callbacks
that you need to implement?
There's three.
You need to implement a reset callback,
a process data,
which is your render callback,
and an optional finalized callback.
So the reset callback is called right
in the beginning during initialization.
And this is where
[Transcript missing]
The reset callback also gets
called every time there's an
interruption in the render chain.
And this is--so in addition
to that format negotiation,
this is the right place to
reset any of your buffers if you
have latency to clear them out.
If you're using audio units underneath,
here's your place to reset those units.
Basically clear any kind of state
that you may be holding onto.
The process data callback is called
per buffer of audio rendered.
QuickTime hands you input audio.
You do your processing and
hand it back to QuickTime.
And note that this callback is made on
the high-priority audio rendering thread,
so you want to be really zippy.
You want to avoid making
memory allocations.
You want to avoid CF operations because
invariably they take spin locks,
and in general you want to be quick
about doing things in this render call.
One thing I didn't mention is that
QuickTime does not implement any
kind of bypass for your insert.
So if your client application
does offer a bypass option,
then you need to still stay true
to the contract that has been
set regarding your output layout.
So even if you don't do
any processing of audio,
if you've said that you're
going to take in a stereo
input and create a quad output,
you still need to be
doing that kind of mixing,
even in the bypassed state.
And the finalized callback is optional.
It gets called whenever the audio
context is going to go away,
either because the movie was closed
or if it's movie audio extraction,
the context was reset.
And this is a signal
from QuickTime saying,
no more callbacks are going
to be made to your insert.
And that's a good place to
sort of let go of any resources
that you may be holding onto.
If you're, again,
using audio units underneath,
that's a good place to
close those components.
So I mentioned this registration
information and that struct,
and that struct looks exactly like that.
Let's start from the bottom.
We have the three callbacks,
so you provide addresses
to those three callbacks.
Then you provide information about
your input and output channel layouts,
and the first parameter is the user
data which is sent to-- it's sent as a
first parameter to your three callbacks.
Here's a bit of code following the
same steps that we went through.
So in step number one,
you query the movie audio context,
and like I said,
you query the movie's summary
layout and summary ASBD,
and like I said,
we have a new property that
you can use to do that.
Then there's a bit of
pseudo-code in step number two,
but that's the general idea.
You would try and see if you can handle
the layout and the summary mix that
the movie is claiming to be creating,
and if not,
then you get the right in-and-out
layouts that your insert can process.
Then you fill out your structure.
That's pretty self-explanatory.
In step number four,
you create an audio context.
Now, here we're creating a context
for the default device,
so we're passing a UID of null,
and we get back a new audio context.
We then register our insert with that
context in step number five and then
set it on the movie in step number six.
So we just went over the steps
involved in getting hooked
into QuickTime's playback path.
But like I said,
you could also insert your
custom processing in QuickTime's
movie audio extraction path.
And the way to do this
is slightly different,
but very intuitive if you've been working
with the movie audio extraction APIs,
which is first thing you do is begin
a movie audio extraction session.
You would query the extraction layout to
see if your insert can deal with that.
You then set any
properties that you need.
These might be the start and
stop times of the extraction,
the layout that you might extract to,
etc.
But the property that is of
importance in this discussion
is the register insert property,
and what you provide to this property
is the struct that we went through,
the register info registry structure.
QuickTime Registry Infrastructure.
And then once you're configured,
the fill buffer call can be made,
and this is where your reset and
process data callbacks are called.
And once you're ready to end the session,
you call end,
and that's where your finalized
cleanup callback is called.
So the only new piece of code here
is the setting of one property,
and what you provide is
that registry info struct.
A few things to note when
you're working with inserts.
One, you can have only one
insert per audio context.
So if you want to add multiple effects,
you would want to create, say,
a graph of your own on your end,
but on the QuickTime side,
it's just one insert.
QuickTime will not work
with protected content,
so if you have movies with some
tracks that have protected content,
the call to register insert will fail.
and you must be ready to process at
whatever sample rate audio is given
to you during the reset callback.
Well, I sort of showed you in the data
flow diagram that what you get is the
sample rate of the movie summary mix,
but QuickTime is free to
optimize that and change that,
so you shouldn't be making any
assumptions about that and should
be able to deal with the sample rate
given to you and not change it when
you're doing your own processing.
And that was it regarding
the audio context inserts,
and in general,
that's the end of the session.
But I'd like to do a quick summary
of what we've learned today.
We started with a quick overview of
QuickTime Audio and its capabilities,
and hopefully you have a
better understanding of what
QuickTime Audio is good at so
that you can make a better choice
between that and Core Audio's APIs.
We went over some best practices.
Sound managers,
sound converter are deprecated.
We'd like you to use the sound
description accessor functions
instead of dealing with the sound
description handles directly.
And movie audio extraction is the
new way to go to get at PCM data.
And then we covered various new
properties and two main APIs.
There's the standard audio
compression component and its APIs and
the audio context insert APIs.
And that's it for the session.
That's some documentation that flew by.